greetings one at all Laszlo Montgomery
here with another edition of the China
history podcast as I feared I was not
able to get this show uploaded on time
this true chai or business trip was way
more intense and action-packed than I
was originally led to believe and as a
result there wasn't enough time to get
this done
but thanks to a nice 40,000 point
business class upgrade on Cathay Pacific
I was able to get a good portion written
over the Pacific so my sincerest and
humblest apologies to everyone well we
finally made it to the Ching dynasty the
last dynasty in Imperial Chinese history
which went back all the way to 221 BC
and chief Wong we're going to take our
time for the next several weeks and just
wallow in this time period because the
Ching dynasty began only 367 years ago
in 1644 Chinese refer to this time as
recent history it's indeed recent if he
consider the official starting point
being the Shang Dynasty that began in
1675 BC so 367 years ago in the context
of three thousand six hundred and
eighty-six years of continuous recorded
history by Chinese reckoning the Cinque
Perry at his recent history in the USA
in 1644 aside from the fact that there
was no USA yet this time was our early
colonial history Jamestown was only
established in 1607 a mere 37 years
before the winter emperor first sat on
the throne in the Forbidden City
this is the last 267 years of Imperial
Chinese history when it all comes
crashing down in 1911 with Sun yat-sen
and the Shanghai kameen that's it for
emperors you'll have nationalist China
then the People's Republic and instead
of Emperor's we'll have the likes of
Swing John Shawn the father of modern
China Gian Cheshire aka Chiang kai-shek
followed by Mao Zedong Quaqua Fung Deng
Xiao ping Jung Sulu mean who Ching Tao
and just like it's been going back to
Ching sure
d the successor not a Crown Prince
though waits in the wings and this will
be vice-president mr. xi jinping so
let's light this fuse here and take this
long march through an amazing dynasty
and one that most Westerners are
familiar comfortable with it wasn't so
long ago and no other dynasty even holds
a candle to the Ching as far as
interaction between the West and China
goes this is also the only dynasty for
which there is a photographic record of
many events and important persons in our
last episode we discussed how the
Manchus rose to power and how with the
assistance of Wu San guei made fast work
of Lisa Cheung and his brief Schwinn
dynasty leads the Chung deserves the
most credit for delivering the knockout
punch that brought down the Ming Dynasty
and put it out of its misery
you'll recall someone opened the gates
and let this guy and his rabble rebel
army into the city and his troops
ransacked the place the Chun Chun
Emperor the last emperor of ming china
hung himself from a tree behind the
imperial palace rather than face the
marauding rebels led by Lisa Cheung then
later after Lisa Chun was overthrown the
Manchu Regent Dorgan or du'a arguin in
mandarin assumed power as regent and put
the child schwinn jure emperor on the
dragon throne and he then becomes the
first Ching Emperor of China now
Dorgan had to first deal with very stiff
resistance coming from the Manchu
aristocracy these Manchu Nobles had
their own ideas about dealing with China
and they were dead set against the
likely sonification of the Manchus now
that they occupied the throne Dorgan
knew if he was to stave off the pressure
coming from the north he had to get the
Han Chinese on his side and once he had
their full support this would strengthen
his hand and allow him to better stand
up against the Manchu nobility so he
accepted the inevitability that the
ching regime would have to bend a little
to accommodate the chinese by 1649
Dorgan had mustered enough support to
effectively curb
influence in the government of the
Manchu Nobles the Chinese rallied around
torgan and many of the officials from
the former Ming Dynasty accepted his
leadership and saw him as someone they
could work with but Dorgan died in 1650
and the anti Dorgan faction was able to
return to power and reverse some of the
key changes and appointments the schwinn
jure emperor reigned until 1661 and he
was able to overcome the forces that
were strongly opposed to sonification of
the Ching the Schwinger Emperor brought
back the eunuchs who were only too happy
to settle in the palace again and
ingratiate themselves to their new
masters he also smartly had a memorial
tablet erected in honor of the deceased
Chun Chun Emperor and he paid respect to
the Ming Dynasty into this last tragic
emperor this was a great PR maneuver
that won over the hearts and minds of
many a former Ming official and
loyalists this winter Emperor was also
known for his religious conviction and
expressed great interest in the work of
the Jesuits however in the end he
embraced Buddhism instead so he really
stood up to these conservative Manchu
Nobles in the government February 2nd
1661 the Emperor dies of smallpox and
once again the Manchus at court who were
opposed to the ways of the Chinese took
advantage of the power vacuum and
restored Manchu aristocratic power
another child took the throne and there
was a Regency put in place to govern on
behalf of this seven year old kid the
leading Regent was called oh boy or in
Mandarin albeit not only did he engineer
the return of the Manchu nobility to
power he falsified a deathbed confession
of the SH Winter Emperor where
everything about the assumption of mean
Chinese ways including the UNIX was
renounced so oh boy spent the next six
years of this Regency totally undoing
everything the previous Emperor did the
Chinese the eunuchs and bureaucrats were
all swept away from any positions of
power and it was a total Manchu takeover
of the government the oh boy Regency as
it was called
was a dark time for the Chinese but it
got to the point where it all got to be
a little too much and in time some sort
of middle ground was explored that
wasn't the all-out Pro Chinese policies
of the deceased
schwinn jure emperor and at the same
time didn't follow the extremists
anti-chinese Pro Manchu ways of the oh
boy Regency the seven-year-old Emperor
the third son of the Schwinn chair
Emperor despite being exposed to the
disease survived the smallpox that had
killed his father back in those days if
he can do this it meant you were special
six years later into the oh boy Regency
when this boy emperor was formally
enthroned he began to slowly assert
himself and by the time he was 15 he
made his move against oh boy and had him
and his followers arrested quite amazing
for a 15 year old but then again this
was no ordinary kid he was none other
than the Kangxi Emperor who is
acknowledged as the greatest emperor of
the Ching dynasty and truly one of the
top Emperors of China going all the way
back to Han katsu the Kangxi Emperor
reigned a nice long time from 1660 to to
1720 to a total of 61 years and this
six-decade reign makes him the all-time
champ in Chinese history
nobody had a longer run and kunshi D
he's also known by his temple name Chun
soo once in a while China got lucky and
not only did you have a great advert but
he rained a long time too he was the
first of three great emperors who gave
the Ching dynasty their best years these
three great adverse kunshi Yong Chun and
chin long ruled collectively for a
hundred and thirty five years after all
that had happened since the Ming started
to irreparably decayed the transition
from Ming to Ching and all the
infighting finally there came with the
Kang XI Emperor a period of peace
stability military victories and
expansion of the Empire once he had done
away with the powerful regent oh boy and
came into his own
this Emperor listed three challenges
that he prioritized these were improving
flood control of the Yellow River fixing
up the Grand Canal and dealing with the
three feudatories who had revolted wait
a second what's a few to Tory
a few to Tory has nothing to do with a
feud it's related to feudalism remember
when the chain took over they needed a
few Han Chinese generals to help them
dump the Ming and later rule the Far
Away provinces that the Manchus couldn't
effectively rule one of these generals
was as you recall from the last episode
Wu San guei
who had allowed the Manchus to pass
through the Great Wall at Shanghai Qin
these ming generals or collaborators
were amply rewarded and given what's
known as feudatories and they became
sort of vassals of the qing rulers the
Manchus knowing their limitations and
all knew they couldn't bite off more
than they could chew so for these lands
far far from Beijing they instituted
that Yi Han chair Han system which
basically said let the Han rule the Han
Chinese where they the Manchus
themselves couldn't effectively govern
the three provinces that were too far
away to control were good none Guangdong
and Fujian but where the Manchus did
rule particularly close to their
epicenter in Manchuria it was not the
best time to be Chinese
the Manchus liked their Jurchen
ancestors weren't such nice guys and
totally held the Han Chinese in their
ways and contempt
kunshi changed all that he actively
tried to pacify the Chinese and reverse
the tension created by edicts that
kicked all Chinese out of Manchuria
banned intermarriage created horrible
conditions for peasants and again the
men were forced to wear the Manchu
tonsure that called for them to shave
their forehead and wear this
pigtail or queue that they just hated
and caused all kinds of opera nothing
did more to fan the flames of animosity
than this and as we'll see later at the
tail end of the dynasty long after the
Mandate of Heaven was gone cutting off
the pigtail was
a symbol of rejection of their Manchu
overlords Kangxi brought the Chinese
into the fold and halted all these kinds
of policies of segregation he lowered
taxes which boosted prosperity and
agriculture and commerce which led in
turn to more revenue coming into the
coffers come she was a brilliant patron
of the Arts learning among the other
great works commissioned by the Kangxi
Emperor are the kanji dictionary and the
epic history of the Ming the concedes
have been and they mean sure he also
called for a complete edition of the
works of Zhu XI these alone have already
immortalized this great emperor these
were heady days to be a scholar and
there was plenty of work to go around
even within the confines of the
Forbidden City workshops studios and
kinds of intellectual salons have been
set up to advance learning and Sciences
and the arts now back to the three
feudatories the Sun Fondren what our
friend or trader to the Chinese however
you want to view him sank way he was
given the provinces of Yunnan and Cueto
to other Ming generals shankha XI and
Gong Cheol ming were given Guangdong and
Fujian respectively
now these feudatories like any vassal
state were passed on to their sons and
grandsons these three Chung and gum were
known as the three feudatories the
kangxi emperor began to have second
thoughts about these three feudatories
who had sided with the Manchus and had
been instrumental in facilitating their
conquest of china they controlled an
area in the south about the size of
France and Spain combined and once they
began to make their rule over these
lands for red eteri the Kangxi Emperor
knew he had to nip this problem in the
bud the three feudatories began to smell
trouble as Kang XI was sending out
feelers to test their continued loyalty
to their Manchu masters essentially
there wasn't any loyalty and what was
developing down in the south was simply
another access of power to rival the
Manchus who were stronger in the north
in 1673 who's San guei was the first to
break with the Manchus he declares a new
dynasty choosing the name Jo just as
it's attended almost a thousand years
before when she ruled as China's only
Empress shanku she and Gong Cheol Ming
openly broke with the Manchus and though
they didn't go so far as to found their
own dynasties they were firmly lined up
with Wu's San guei against the Manchus
well the war of the three feudatories is
long and involved in lasted eight years
from 1673 to 1681 in short had failed
only three leaders wu chun and gung
never really got it together and were
unsuccessful in coordinating their
reconquest of china furthermore all
three had black marks against their
names having already once sold out to
the Ching it was harder than expected to
muster support amongst all the Chinese
viewed them as former traders and
besides all this all three turned out to
be just plain old incompetent and not
suited to be rulers Wu San guei declared
himself emperor of his Jo dynasty in
1678 but died in the same year by 1681
the whole affair was over and done with
in the Kang's she Emperor had prevailed
he had the war of the three feudatories
been successful it would have spelled a
quick end to the Ching they would have
gone down in history as another quick
dynasty in China like the Western Jin in
this way but thanks to the three
feudatories essentially not rising to
the occasion and the manchu success on
the battlefield it turned out to be
merely an 8-year threat that was
ultimately smashed one interesting note
of this time was that firearms make
their first significant entree in
Chinese history cannon of course had
been around a while but now guns were
starting to blaze and although crossbows
were still the weapon of convenience
battles now take on a new look and
deadliness kunshi filled the power
vacuum down in the south with his own
people who were unquestionably loyal to
him now when I say the south I actually
mean the Yangtze River
region more than the southern provinces
of cuejoe Yunnan Hunan Guang XI who had
earlier thrown in their lot with the
three feudatories they were conquered
but remained on the periphery and
loyalties down there towards the Manchus
were hardly enthusiastic the Ching
shared the same lack of interest in
maritime trade and exploration that the
other inner Asian peoples had they were
people comfortable on land on the back
of a horse this isn't to say that no
trade or commerce took place trade was
still plentiful and during this first
half century of the Ching the Europeans
were now coming in droves via sea for
the first time and with them came the
Jesuit missionaries as we mentioned last
time the italian jesuit matteo ricci was
given permission to reside in beijing
back in 1601 the Jesuits truly endeared
themselves with the Confucian scholar
elites learning Mandarin and passing on
Western knowledge and astronomy
mathematics European clockmaking
cartography and many other aspects of
Western learning the Jesuits took a long
term view of China and sort of made
allowances to attract Chinese to their
religion by allowing some Chinese
sensibilities to permeate the faith this
included a tolerance of Confucianism no
tolerance however was given to Buddhism
or to neo-confucianism so in the
interest of proselytizing their own
faith they made some allowances we'll
see later on when the Dominicans and the
Franciscans come to China they challenge
this
Jesuit way of doing things and preach
their own more pure version of
Catholicism these friars who came from
the Spanish Philippines targeted the
common people in China rather than the
Jesuits who focused on the elites of
society the inevitable clashes happen
between the Jesuits and these mendicant
friars the Kangxi Emperor was also
famous for his six grand tours across
southern China between 1684 and 1707 he
visited the western part of China and
also to chew food the home of Confucius
and he also walked in the footsteps of
Qin Shihuang when he ascended Tai Shan
one of the sacred mountains of China is
Shandong Province not a single Ming
Emperor had made this trek previously he
traveled throughout the realm mostly
incognito and loved to mingle with the
lobby XI in fact the most satisfying
activity for the kunshi Emperor was to
be on the back of a horse on a wide-open
space somewhere out in nature let's talk
about Taiwan now Taiwan's integration
into China starts right about here
historically Taiwan hadn't been part of
China it was within the sphere of
Chinese maritime influence but it had
never been developed or explored being
an island separated by a narrow 120
miles straight was the main reason
Aboriginal people lived on the island
and engaged in trade with adventurers
from Guangdong and particularly with
Fujian which is right across the strait
from Taiwan the Japanese also traded
with the Aboriginal people in Taiwan
towards the tail end of the Ming Dynasty
Portuguese sailors visited the island or
as the story goes were shipwrecked they
named the place ela Formosa which in
Portuguese means beautiful Isle
the Portuguese never established a
full-time presence there because they
were already set up in Macau but the
Spanish and the Dutch did and Spanish
set themselves up in Geelong and the
Dutch did the same down in Tainan now
the Dutch they eventually kicked the
Spanish out early in the game and they
became the strongest and most
established Western presence on the
island the Dutch East Indies were in
full swing by this time and they had a
major enterprise going out in the Spice
Islands aka Indonesia Taiwan had been
dominated by the warlord Chung King I
haven't mentioned Chung king's father
yet but I will now Jang Hong Kong also
known as cachinga which was a Western
pronunciation of his other honorific
Chinese name quashing yeah he wasn't the
only one that was holding out against
the Manchu rulers jung chung comb or
Ginga lives sort of a tragic life
his descendants continued to hold out
against the Manchus and the Jung's did a
big business trading in all kinds of
commodities the Manchus were great on
horseback but not too good when it came
to fighting on water so they were
essentially unsuccessful in displacing
the jung's and were powerless to stop
them and it's right about now in the
1660s 1670s that you start to see
massive migration across the Taiwan
Strait mostly from Fujian knees and to
this day that's why the local language
of Taiwan is pretty much the same as
what you hear in Fujian province so this
is where it all began and one of these
days when we discuss the history of
Taiwan we'll get into much greater
detail but it's during the kunshi
Emperor's time that in 1684 Taiwan is
annexed to China and its history is
irreversibly linked forever to China in
1683 forces loyal to the Ching led by
sherlyn invaded Taiwan with force of 300
vessels and the jung's were finally
crushed and from this point forward
Taiwan was part of Ching dynasty China
and it was initially made a prefix our
of Fujian province
kunshi by now had multiple feathers in
his cap as a teenager he had overthrown
the oh boy Regency and then went on to
defeat the three feudatories followed by
his conquest of Taiwan he had pacified
the Han Chinese and established
prosperity across China when the
Russians started to get ambitions up
near the border and hey long Cheng the
kunshi Emperor was able to sort that out
and ended up signing a commercial treaty
with them in 1696 also in the 1690s
Kangxi personally led two military
campaigns against the powerful Mongolian
leader called on who had Grand Designs
to unify the Mongolians and twenty-two
years later the forces of the Kangxi
Emperor invaded Tibet and installed
their own choice of Dalai Lama after
what they saw was a usurper who was put
on the throne among the most sensitive
and important issues today that we read
about constantly all had their root
story
the reign of the Kangxi Emperor and with
Tibet under their control as well as
Taiwan you see the extent of the Ching
Empire from north south east and west a
map of China in 1720 looks very very
close to a map of China in 2011 China
now under the kunshi Emperor was at
least geographically looking much like
the China we all know and love today
unifying and consolidating China was the
kunshi Emperor's passion and maybe his
greatest achievement December 17 22 the
longest reigning emperor China had ever
seen died of natural causes as great as
this emperor was he blundered the
succession not naming any heir to the
throne therefore the transition was not
a smooth one from Kangxi to one of his
many sons who became the young Chun
Emperor the young Cheung ever arraigned
from 1723 to 1735 right about this time
on the other side of the world the
founding fathers who would form the
nation known as the USA were being born
into this world the Kangxi Emperor was a
hard-working monarch he took his job
seriously and worked tirelessly all day
and night he wasn't just an emperor who
reigned he was a hands-on ruler and got
right down to the details fortunately
for us this Emperor spared no detail
about his personal life and kept a great
record of his thoughts and his personal
feelings despite the magnificence of the
times he lived in the Kangxi Emperor
lived a rather frugal life all things
considered he did father 56 children
though and I assure you not from the
same wife he would notoriously rise at 5
a.m. and be attended to by his eunuchs
and he would drink tea with milk and
often had bird's nest soup and then he
would pray and meditate at a Buddhist
shrine within the palace compound he
would also devote some time to study of
the classics before he was carried in
his letter to the palace of heavenly
purity or the qin Chingam where the
nitty-gritty of the affairs
State were carried out after a 2 p.m.
midday meal he would continue his
devotions to learning and the fine arts
and late into the evening he would
continue the work of the Emperor reading
documents and writing his personal
instructions and the margins of these
so-called memorials let's close with
Kang she's immortal valedictory edict he
wrote this 5 years before his death in
1722 it was meant to be read after his
death and in it he spelled out his
thoughts on china governing and the
legacy of his six-decade reign he said
quote be kind to men from afar and keep
the able ones ner nourish the people
think of the prophet of all as being the
real prophet in the mind of the whole
country as being the real mind protect
the state before danger comes and
governed well before there is any
disturbance be always diligent and
always careful I'd say these are good
words of advice that all leaders of all
nations should listen to in his
summation of his valedictory edict he
said quote I have enjoyed the respect
from my people and the wealth of the
world there is nothing I do not have
nothing that I have not experienced but
now that I have reached old age I cannot
rest easy for a moment
therefore I regard the whole country as
a worn-out sandal and all wealth as mud
and sand if I can died peacefully
without any outbreak of trouble I would
be much satisfied I wish all of you
officials to remember that I have been a
kind and sincere Emperor for over 50
years and that what I have repeated to
you over and over is really from the
bottom of my heart I will say no more
next week we will look at his successor
the Yong Chun Emperor he wasn't his
father's first choice the Crown Prince
turned out to be a real Nair do well of
copious proportions and although it
broke his heart the Kangxi Emperor had
to go to plan B which was essentially to
do nothing so we have this murky
succession but we end up with the Yong
Chun Emperor
although he was no con she the Ching
dynasty certainly could have done a lot
worse so we'll look at him next week in
future podcasts we'll come back again
and perhaps again after that to the
reign of the Kangxi Emperor
we're only scanning the surface and
getting a general idea of the time so
we'll come back another day and look at
the history of Westerners in China and
about the Catholic Church painting
calligraphy literature and so forth and
so on as Professor bob says again I'm
sorry I didn't get this uploaded in the
usual 7 to 8 day period I'm back in the
USSR
I think we'll fall back on this normal
episode frequency and so from the
tranquility of Claremont California this
is Laszlo Montgomery once again wishing
you the very best thank you very much
for listening and I hope to see you next
week again for another exciting episode
of the China history podcast hang on I'm
not done yet
before I upload this I wanted to first
personally apologize humbly deeply and
sincerely about my nasal congestion and
to all those who found it offensive to
listen to the past 27 and a half minutes
looks like I got coughed and sneezed on
while I was enjoying my business class
digs on that cafe flight writing this
episode I hope next week I'll sound more
like myself rather than some history
podcaster with a bad cold so sorry
everyone okay that's a